---
layout: post
title:  "Twitter Archive"
date:   2013-02-17 10:10:55
categories: personal
---

<p>I was finally granted access to my Twitter archive. Despite the wait and subsequent rise in intrigue, I hesitated when eventually given the option to download. Here, at my fingertips, were 5.5 years worth of thoughts – like a diary. And <em>everyone</em> cringes when revisiting their diary.</p>
<p>Naturally, I navigated to the beginning. Summer &#8217;07. I didn&#8217;t have anything purposeful to say. I was in a lousy relationship and suffering with anxiety. I barely left the house, hated my job, and didn&#8217;t have any hobbies outside of gaming. Life was slow.</p>
<p>I fast-forwarded to the breakdown of my relationship of 3 years. It wasn&#8217;t particularly excruciating to relive, but I proceeded to revisit all my break-ups, and some were <a href="https://twitter.com/iamashley/statuses/62090186904965120">rather painful</a> or unexpected.</p>
<p>I skipped forward each year at a time, moving to specific events I consider significant, but discovering gems I had forgotten about in the process. It was apparent how much I was changing. My tone of voice, my confidence. I was finally doing things with my life worth sharing (traveling, photography etc). I stopped tweeting about my panic attacks because I stopped having them.</p>
<p>There was the purchase of <a href="https://twitter.com/iamashley/statuses/811741083">my first dSLR</a>, which – unbeknownst to me at the time – was a pivotal moment. It led to my first paid photography job, which I <a href="https://twitter.com/iamashley/statuses/15169132275">nervously tweeted about</a>. The apprehension and uncertainty I could deliver what the client wanted, and now – 2.5 years on – people are asking me to photograph their <em>weddings</em>.</p>
<p><a href="https://twitter.com/iamashley/statuses/19483392198">Hiring a personal trainer</a> and introducing exercise into my routine, which is now a <em>huge</em> part of my life and something I&#8217;m surprised took so long to be a part of it.</p>
<p>Getting on a plane after a crippling fear of flying. The most triumphant moment of my life so far, facing my fear and – in the process – letting go of the suffocating anxiety that had followed me around for years. <a href="https://twitter.com/iamashley/statuses/18098765503">The frightening build-up</a> and sleepless nights were all documented, <a href="https://twitter.com/iamashley/statuses/18103481344">as was that proud moment</a>.</p>
<p>I feel so very fortunate to have a platform that has given me the ability to gain a glimpse into my past; the gems I had forgotten about, or notable experiences which I am now able to recall exactly how I felt, five years on. And what I had for lunch in June of 2008, which isn&#8217;t as momentous, but it&#8217;s there. In my archive.</p>