---
layout: post
title:  "My Baby"
date:   2013-08-10 10:10:55
categories: business
---

<p>I have finished building the initial version of my first app, <a title="Lodger" href="http://lodgerapp.com">Lodger</a>. Of course, I use the word &#8220;finished&#8221; loosely. I don&#8217;t think my work will ever be done, and the very reason I&#8217;ve yet to officially announce it is because I still find myself using the app and scrutinising every detail. Every detail, including syntax indentations.</p>
<p>This goes against the lean start-up, agile software sentiment that dominates every software-related article / book I have read as of late. &#8220;Build it quickly. Build it roughly. Get it out there. Coffee.&#8221;</p>
<p>I&#8217;m portraying myself as a perfectionist, which I am anything but. I am a messy girl – my hair is messy and my work is messy. But this experience of working on Lodger has been different. It&#8217;s my baby, and an exercise in learning to program and execute. Yet I&#8217;m not proud of it. It doesn&#8217;t do much. Even if it did do much, I likely still wouldn&#8217;t be proud of it.</p>
<p>In a nutshell, I have found building Lodger to be tough (and I&#8217;m not just referring to building a working web application with minimal programming experience), yet this isn&#8217;t even the beginning. No. Next comes the marketing and acquiring users, optimising the app&#8217;s performance, customer satisfaction and ensuring this product makes me money. What a learning curve this will be, yet I fear it is all for nothing (I&#8217;ve been warned landlords are slow to adopt new technology).</p>
<p>Anyway, tomorrow I will use and stare at my app. I will make some minor tweaks and then stare at it some more. But then I will roll it out to the next 10 people on my list. And rinse, repeat.</p>
<p>Is it meant to be this difficult? Am I meant to feel this apprehensive about unleashing it to the public?</p>