---
layout: post
title:  "I'll Be Your Tour Guide Today"
date:   2013-12-24 10:10:55
categories: personal
---
<p>During a monthly <a href="http://refreshglasgow.org/" title="Refresh Glasgow">Refresh</a> meet-up, <a href="http://twitter.com/stevieg_83" title="Steven Grant's Twitter">Steven</a> and I casually discussed the idea of a photo walk around Glasgow. I can&#8217;t recall the specifics, but somebody – perhaps even Steven – was hoping to learn to use their camera, and I suggested a photo walk being a good tool to do so.</p>
<p>Glasgow is an ideal city for photographing; it&#8217;s photogenic and easily covered on foot, marrying grungey backdrops with beautiful architecture, and plenty of greenery (not to mention entertaining characters if portrait photography is more so your bag, as it is mine).</p>
<p>With Christmas approaching, I set some time aside for tackling personal projects. <a href="http://glasgowphotowalk.co.uk" title="Glasgow Photo Walk">Glasgow Photo Walk</a> is one of them, and I&#8217;m happy to announce it launched last night.</p>
<p>I&#8217;m starting simple with <a href="http://glasgowphotowalk.co.uk" title="Glasgow Photo Walk">Glasgow Photo Walk</a> to gauge interest, but I do have ideas to expand if the format proves popular. The first photo walk, which takes place on January 18th, is limited to just 10 people. It&#8217;s nothing more than a casual walk around a pre-determined route with a camera of any type in tow. Oh, and I&#8217;m especially happy for any new photographers to probe me with questions, if they think I&#8217;m smart enough to have the answer.</p>
<p>In the future, however, I would like to include an optional workshop afterwards, held in the studio I work from, <a href="http://toadscaravan.com" title="Toad's Caravan">Toad&#8217;s Caravan</a>. This could involve sharing the images we have taken over the course of the walk, and possibly cover post-processing tips and workflow.</p>
<p>Lastly, if there <em>is</em> a demand for a <a href="http://glasgowphotowalk.co.uk" title="Glasgow Photo Walk">Glasgow Photo Walk</a>, I would like to centre it around community. I built the Glasgow Photo Walk site to hint at the social aspect, with the ability to create an account and upload photos from the walk. It&#8217;s very simple at this point, but once I&#8217;ve hosted the first photo walk, I can get an idea of whether this is something attendees will use.</p>
<p>Of course, I could have simply integrated Flickr, but I don&#8217;t like the direction Flickr is headed and I wanted to get more programming experience. I&#8217;ll reevaluate this a couple of months down the line.</p>
<p>To surmise, there&#8217;s a lot of potential for Glasgow Photo Walk to build a community of photographers of all levels. Ultimately, I want attendees to enjoy shooting in the city, but for Glasgow Photo Walk to provide an educational twist.</p>
<p>At the time of writing, there is only one spot left, so be quick to <a href="https://getinvited.to/ashleybaxter/glasgow-photo-walk-01/" title="Glasgow Photo Walk 01">nab your free ticket</a>.</p>