---
layout: post
title:  "I Launched My Business On Stage To 200 People But That Was The Easy Part"
date:   2014-05-03 10:10:55
categories: business
---
<p>Public speaking is <em>scary</em>—I hate, hate, <em>hate</em> it. Starting a business is scary. Yet I knew speaking at <a href="http://dotyork.com" title="Dot York">Dot York</a> to 200 people, where I talked of my struggle with my previous business and subsequently launched my new venture, was actually going to be the easy part. Now I have to make this thing work.</p>
<h4>The Negative Feedback</h4>
<p>Despite much of the reaction towards <a href="http://insurancebyjack.co.uk" title="Insurance by Jack">my new business</a> being positive, there’s also been a lot of negative feedback centring around one particular thing; the third-party quote system and its lack of brand integration with my site.</p>
<p>It’s been hard to hear, but I’m grateful people are being honest enough to vocalise their thoughts on how I can improve the experience. It beats people being polite just for the sake of it, giving you no indication as to how they really feel about your business/product. On the other hand, I feel at a loss. As an introducer, the nature of my job means I will <em>always</em> be locked into using a third-party quote system, meaning it will never perfectly align with my own site’s branding. For the first time in my 9-year career in insurance, though, I actually feel comfortable with the system we are using, because I know <em>it’s the best one out there</em>. I also know it has a stellar team behind it.</p>
<p>Of course, I agree the branding could be better integrated with my site. It’s a ‘chicken and egg’ situation, however; the more business I do, the more customisation and control I will be granted over the branding of the quote system. But to bring in business, my audience is looking for a fully branded experience, which—of course—extends to the quote system.</p>
<h3>So, Where Does That Leave Me?</h3>
<p>As vague as it sounds, I’m taking the feedback onboard and will keep pushing forward. I really care about this. Since listening to feedback, I&#8217;ve already added a modal to give a heads up about the redirect to our quote system provider.</p>
<p>My aim is to build a more human, approachable brand. One where my customers can tweet/email a question and have a human respond, not an automated bot pushing them to contact the call centre, <a href="http://twitter.com/iamashley" title="@iamashley">but me</a>. Hi. A real person who understands your needs, because I am one of you. And I’ll be listening and communicating with you for as long as you need me.</p>
<p>Hopefully having this point of contact—someone on your side—is enough to help me build an audience in this early stage, whilst I work on addressing the imperfections.</p>
<h4>Baby Steps</h4>
<p>I’m starting from scratch, and I know I have a lot of work to do. I’m ready for this challenge, but I do hope people understand that starting a business is all about baby steps. The business this is today won’t necessarily be the business it is in a year. It will evolve, grow and mature into something better—but always with customer satisfaction and good design at its core. You should <a href="http://insurancebyjack.co.uk" title="Insurance by Jack">get on board</a>.</p>