---
layout: post
title:  This Lone Wolf Joins A Pack
date: 2016-05-09 13:37:00
categories: business
author_name : Ashley
author_url : /about
author_avatar: avatar
show_avatar : true
show_related_posts: false
displayed: yes
hidden: false
---
During the 5-hour drive to <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/BFGONzHrXZY/?taken-by=ashleybaxter">Skye</a> I caught up on podcasts. Lewis Howes' episode <a href="http://lewishowes.com/podcast/lone-wolf/">'Are You A Lone Wolf?'</a> from The School of Greatness stood out to me. Particulary the African Proverb he opened with.

_“If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.”_ 

I identify as a lone wolf. At 17, I moved into a 1-bed apartment in a city I didn't know anybody. I grew to be comfortable in my own company as I attended gigs and dined out alone.

Work-wise, I've been self-employed all my adult life. There's been the odd collaboration, but I've mostly worked alone and from my home office. Personally and professionally, I'm comfortable doing things on my own.

That includes building a business.

It _is_ possible to build a business as a solo founder, but in many respects it's more challenging to reach the same outcome as a business with, say, two founders.

A limited skillset, a lack of people to bounce ideas off, and nobody to <a href="http://www.paulgraham.com/startupmistakes.html">talk you out of stupid decisions</a>. As the African Proverb states, we go farther with the help of others.

Businesses are built on relationships, but for 10 years I've hid behind my computer, chipping away at <a href="http://insurancebyjack.co.uk">my insurance business</a> as a one-woman band. I've failed to form relationships or build a network. I wasn't learning from mentors in my industry, and I didn't form valuable connections.

This suited my introvered personality well, but what happened when I decided to take my business to the next level? I didn't know how to.

In 'Are You A Lone Wolf?', Lewis reflects on the change in business from doing everything himself compared to building a solid team. He believes the latter is the only way to reaching full potential.

It was a timely episode for me. Last week I got the call to say I'm officially an Appointed Representative! My business _is_ going to the next level, but I wouldn't have done it this quickly—if at all—had it not been for the help of other people.

At 3AM one sleepless night I reached out to a figure in the insurance industry and asked for direction. Desperate, I begged for guidance on authorisation because I hadn’t had success navigating the regulatory body’s website.

To take my business to the next level, I knew I needed more control. Control over the product, customer journey and technology / design. Authorisation grants you this control, but I wasn't sure how to obtain it.

One email to this person changed everything. A few weeks later we were meeting in London. Two months later the paperwork was finalised, the authorisation process complete, and Jack has joined the Worry+Peace network where regulatory permissions have been extended to us.

Quite simply, I am closer to building the insurance company I've always wanted to.

Being a lone wolf is what comes naturally to me. It's comfortable. It's safe. It's what I know. But I have finally admitted I can't get to where I want to be without help. I need to be part of a team. I think I've found my pack.
